Transfinite mesh generator (#21904)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/TransfiniteMeshGenerator.md

# TransfiniteMeshGenerator

The `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` produces two-dimensional meshes from a set of 4 corner vertices by interpolating the edges into the inner domain. The resulting mesh  consists of QUAD4 elements of aspect ratio and skewness determined by the points on the boundary edges.

!syntax description /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

## Overview

!media media/meshgenerators/quad_convention.png style=float:right;width:20%;margin-left:2%; caption=Fig. 1: Convention for the corner vertices order.

Given a set of 4 corners the TransfiniteMeshGenerator constructs by default the straight edges that connect the vertices and fills up the interior with straight lines. The test, [quadrilater_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/quadrilater_generator.i),

> illustrates the use of the `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` object to construct general quadrilaterals. The convention for the corners numbering should follow Fig. 1, where we use the alternative sides numbering instead of the top-bottom-left-right as in the input file, and should be prescribed in the order +(0,0) - (0,1) - (1,1) - (1,0)+.

Reviewer: Thanks for adding this documentation--I've pulled your branch because I'm excited to try out this new capability (which is essential for the stochastic tools module study I'd like to run). Is the convention for the corners number, mentioned in this line, the order in which the points should be given in the input file or the order in which the code builds the quadrilateral?

As more of a user, I'm particularly interested in figuring out what order I should give the points in the input file. For what it's worth, I've followed the order `(0,0) - (0,1) - (1,1) - (1,0)` and that seems to build nicely

Author: Yes, the order is what is meant, better to approach it as a convention for now since I am still debating a few things with Derek et co. and I might refine the explanations to be more clear. 

And happy you find it useful, I wasn't sure it would be. I pushed now fixes for all arc circle cases and a test for prescribing discrete points so is still growing.

Reviewer: As promised, the MWE/MNWE with the winding order aux kernel. As you'll see, it is all user error (between my keyboard and my chair) that caused the issue, and I'm not sure if it is possible to guard against this sort of user error in the code:
```
[Mesh]
  [quadrilateral]
    type = TransfiniteMeshGenerator
    #Gives a positive winding order which is not good for extruding to 3D
    corners = '-0.6 -0.5 0.0
                0.8 -0.5 0.0
                0.7  0.5 0
               -0.6  0.5 0'

    #Gives a negative winding order and works well for extruding to 3D
    # corners = '-0.6  0.5 0
    #             0.7  0.5 0
    #             0.8 -0.5 0.0
    #            -0.6 -0.5 0.0'
    nx = 4
    ny = 9
    bottom_type = LINE
    top_type = LINE
    right_type = LINE
    left_type = LINE
  []
[]

[AuxVariables]
  [winding_order]
    order = CONSTANT
    family = MONOMIAL
  []
[]

[AuxKernels]
  [winding_order]
    type = WindingOrder
    variable = winding_order
  []
[]

[Variables]
  [u]
  []
[]

[Kernels]
  [diff]
    type = Diffusion
    variable = u
  []
[]

[BCs]
  [left]
    type = DirichletBC
    variable = u
    boundary = left
    value = 0
  []
  [right]
    type = DirichletBC
    variable = u
    boundary = right
    value = 1
  []
[]

[Postprocessors]
  [min_winding_order]
    type = ElementExtremeValue
    value_type = min
    variable = winding_order
  []
  [max_winding_order]
    type = ElementExtremeValue
    value_type = max
    variable = winding_order
  []
[]

[Executioner]
  type = Steady
[]

[Outputs]
  exodus = true
  csv = true
  hide = winding_order
[]
```

Reviewer: @loganharbour would you mark this conversation as resolved for me please? I do not appear to have the privileges to do so

!syntax description /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

## Overview

!media media/meshgenerators/quad_convention.png style=float:right;width:20%;margin-left:2%; caption=Fig. 1: Convention for the corner vertices order.

Given a set of 4 corners the TransfiniteMeshGenerator constructs by default the straight edges that connect the vertices and fills up the interior with straight lines. The test, [quadrilater_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/quadrilater_generator.i),
illustrates the use of the `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` object to construct general quadrilaterals as in Fig. 2. By default the distribution of points along edges is considered equidistant, unless specified otherwise by the user using the parameters `bias_x` or `bias_y`. The core of the algorithm interpolates/fills up the inner domain for any edge type, curved, parametrized, discrete. The current implementation considers all these cases with special attention given to arcs of a circle which are widely encountered in scientific computing applications. 

> The convention for the corners numbering should follow Fig. 1, prescribed in the order +(0,0) - (0,1) - (1,1) - (1,0)+. The direction along edges, important if the user provides them using the DISCRETE option, should follow the direction of the arrows as in Fig. 1.

Reviewer: I've noticed in my use of this capability that the winding order (as measured by the test object auxkernel WindingOrder, see test at test/tests/meshgenerators/concentric_circle_mesh_generator/concentric_circle_mesh2.i ) varies with the order in which the nodes are prescribed.  The given order creates a negative winding order (as desired) while the reverse, incorrect error gives a positive winding error. Is there a way to add in a warning in the code or a note in the documentation page here to help out bad-at-reading-users like me please?

Author: Oh I need to hear more about this, I actually had an issue with the biases that I couldn't find a good case to see it fail properly till recently, and I had to fix a typo that was reversing the sign. Could you please let me know if you have this issue also pulling the latest version?

Reviewer: (put this in the wrong spot, sorry about the duplication) As promised, the MWE/MNWE with the winding order aux kernel. As you'll see, it is all user error (between my keyboard and my chair) that caused the issue, and I'm not sure if it is possible to guard against this sort of user error in the code:
```
[Mesh]
  [quadrilateral]
    type = TransfiniteMeshGenerator
    #Gives a positive winding order which is not good for extruding to 3D
    corners = '-0.6 -0.5 0.0
                0.8 -0.5 0.0
                0.7  0.5 0
               -0.6  0.5 0'

    #Gives a negative winding order and works well for extruding to 3D
    # corners = '-0.6  0.5 0
    #             0.7  0.5 0
    #             0.8 -0.5 0.0
    #            -0.6 -0.5 0.0'
    nx = 4
    ny = 9
    bottom_type = LINE
    top_type = LINE
    right_type = LINE
    left_type = LINE
  []
[]

[AuxVariables]
  [winding_order]
    order = CONSTANT
    family = MONOMIAL
  []
[]

[AuxKernels]
  [winding_order]
    type = WindingOrder
    variable = winding_order
  []
[]

[Variables]
  [u]
  []
[]

[Kernels]
  [diff]
    type = Diffusion
    variable = u
  []
[]

[BCs]
  [left]
    type = DirichletBC
    variable = u
    boundary = left
    value = 0
  []
  [right]
    type = DirichletBC
    variable = u
    boundary = right
    value = 1
  []
[]

[Postprocessors]
  [min_winding_order]
    type = ElementExtremeValue
    value_type = min
    variable = winding_order
  []
  [max_winding_order]
    type = ElementExtremeValue
    value_type = max
    variable = winding_order
  []
[]

[Executioner]
  type = Steady
[]

[Outputs]
  exodus = true
  csv = true
  hide = winding_order
[]
```

Reviewer 2: @oanaoana 
The API call to fix the winding order
```  MeshTools::Modification::orient_elements(*mesh);```

Reviewer 3: @sapitts : In general... in libMesh / MOOSE we always use a "right hand rule" orientation.  That is: a counter-clockwise "winding" will have a positive (pointing at you from the surface) normal.

Reviewer: Please mark this conversation also as resolved, in light of the libmesh update.

# TransfiniteMeshGenerator

The `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` produces two-dimensional meshes from a set of 4 corner vertices by interpolating the edges into the inner domain. The resulting mesh  consists of QUAD4 elements of aspect ratio and skewness determined by the points on the boundary edges.

!syntax description /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

!media large_media/framework/meshgenerators/quad_convention.png style=float:right;width:20%;margin-left:2%; caption=Fig. 1: Convention for the corner vertices order.

## Overview

&nbsp;

Given a set of 4 corners the TransfiniteMeshGenerator constructs by default the straight edges that connect the vertices and fills up the interior with straight lines. The test, [quadrilater_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/quadrilater_generator.i),

> illustrates the use of the `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` object to construct general quadrilaterals as in Fig. 2. By default the distribution of points along edges is considered equidistant, unless specified otherwise by the user using the parameters `bias_x` or `bias_y`. The core of the algorithm interpolates/fills up the inner domain for any edge type, curved, parametrized, discrete. The current implementation considers all these cases with special attention given to arcs of a circle which are widely encountered in scientific computing applications. 

Author: I used the same ratio and bias convention as for the other generators. I do agree this is not extensively explained in the documentation but I think it should be done the same across all generators, not only this one. I think explaining it for this would shadow the other generator tyoes.

> illustrates the use of the `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` object to construct general quadrilaterals as in Fig. 2. By default the distribution of points along edges is considered equidistant, unless specified otherwise by the user using the parameters `bias_x` or `bias_y`. The core of the algorithm interpolates/fills up the inner domain for any edge type, curved, parametrized, discrete. The current implementation considers all these cases with special attention given to arcs of a circle which are widely encountered in scientific computing applications. 

Reviewer 4: Ha!  I didn't realize this was preexisting bad documentation.  No need to fix it here specifically, then.

This generator allows any type of curvilinear edges. In Fig. 2 we show a mesh where the bottom edge has an inward arc circle. However, this algorithm generates a mesh for any parametrized edge, or given set of points on an edge. For arcs of a circle, since they are widely encountered in applications, we customized an approach that requires a user to specify only the deviation from a straight line in the middle of an edge. 

The default distribution of points on an edge is equidistant and nothing explicit needs to be specified. However, for meshes that need to capture more scales in different regions we have two additional options that can be prescribed.  The distribution of points on an edge can be either provided as a discrete set of points, using the edge type `DISCRETE`, or as a bias along the edge. The only requirement is that opposite edges have the same number of points.

## Example 

!media large_media/framework/meshgenerators/transfinite_arccircle_annular_sm.png style=float:right;margin:2%;width:18%; caption=Fig. 3: Annulus section generated using `CIRCARC` edges.

&nbsp;

> This mesh generator considers 4 types of edges defined in `edge_type`, where `edge` is either left, right, top or bottom.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This mesh generator considers 4 types of edges, each of which should have a type defined in "edge"`_type`, where "edge" is either `left`, `right`, `top` or `bottom`.  For some edge types, an edge parameter, similarly named "edge"`_parameter`, is necessary to define the shape of the edge.

Admissible types are:
```

>   - `LINE`, constructs a line between provided corner vertices. A quadrilater can be obtained only with line sides as in Fig. 2.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - `LINE` - constructs a line between the already-provided corner vertices. A quadrilateral can be obtained only with line sides as in Fig. 2.
```

>   - `CIRCARC`, constructs an arc of a circle and requires an additional parameter, named `edge_parameter`. This parameter can be the distance at the middle of an edge between a straight line and the arc of circle desired, as in the test [arccircle_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/arcircle_generator.i). The edge is then generated by computing the middle point on the edge. The deviation from a straight line is set by convention to be positive if the arc circle is outward, or negative if inward, in this fashion the user can specify different orientations, as in Fig. 4.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - `CIRCARC` - constructs an arc of a circle, based on a required edge parameter. This parameter can be the distance at the middle of an edge between a straight line and the arc of circle desired, as in the test [arccircle_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/arcircle_generator.i). The edge is then generated by computing the middle point on the edge. The deviation from a straight line is set by convention to be positive if the arc circle is outward, or negative if inward, in this fashion the user can specify different orientations, as in Fig. 4.
```

>   - `CIRCARC`, constructs an arc of a circle and requires an additional parameter, named `edge_parameter`. This parameter can be the distance at the middle of an edge between a straight line and the arc of circle desired, as in the test [arccircle_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/arcircle_generator.i). The edge is then generated by computing the middle point on the edge. The deviation from a straight line is set by convention to be positive if the arc circle is outward, or negative if inward, in this fashion the user can specify different orientations, as in Fig. 4.

Reviewer: Could you add a couple of lines to show the example calculations in LaTeX for both the distance and midpoint options (as you did to help me via slack)? I'd recommend something as simple as:
in 2D for the distance option:
$$
edge_parameter = 'radius * (1.0 - 1.0 / sqrt(2.0))'
$$

and in 2D for the midpoint option:
$$
edge_parameter = 'origin_x + radius * cos(\theta) && origin_y + radius * sin(\theta) && 0.0'
$$

Author: They're not supposed to be, let me check.

>   The midpoint could also be obtained from a QUAD8 element as provided by an external mesh generator and inserted as input by the user in the same  `edge_parameter`, as in the test [arccircle_midpoint_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/arcircle_midpoint_generator.i). Different point distributions along arc circles can be prescribed as for the other edge types and propagate via the polar coordinates parametrization.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The midpoint could instead be obtained from a QUAD8 element as provided by an external mesh generator and inserted as input by the user in the same  edge parameter, as in the test [arccircle_midpoint_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/arcircle_midpoint_generator.i). Different point distributions along arc circles can be prescribed as for the other edge types and propagate via the polar coordinates parameterization.
```

&nbsp;

!media large_media/framework/meshgenerators/transfinite_discrete_arccircle_sm.png style=float:right;margin:2%;width:30%; caption=Fig. 4: A domain with edge types `CIRCARC` and `DISCRETE`.

!listing test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/discrete_generator.i
    block=Mesh/transf

>   - `DISCRETE`, constructs a line along a set of points provided by the user in the order represented by arrows in Fig. 1, a test is available in [discrete_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/discrete_generator.i) and illustrated in Fig. 4. This option is the only one that does not support a different point redistribution, i.e. the options `bias_x` and `bias_y` will have no effect, since it is assumed the user desires those edge points explicitly. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - `DISCRETE` - constructs a line along a set of points, provided by the user in a required edge parameter, connected in the order represented by arrows in Fig. 1.  A test is available in [discrete_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/discrete_generator.i) and illustrated in Fig. 4. This option is the only one that does not support a different point redistribution via the options `bias_x` and `bias_y`; these will have no effect, since it is assumed the user desires their edge points exactly as specified. 
```

>   - `DISCRETE`, constructs a line along a set of points provided by the user in the order represented by arrows in Fig. 1, a test is available in [discrete_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/discrete_generator.i) and illustrated in Fig. 4. This option is the only one that does not support a different point redistribution since it is assumed the user desires those edge points explicitely. Along an edge described by this option the `bias_x` and `bias_y` parameters will have no effect. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - `DISCRETE`, constructs a line along a set of points provided by the user in the order represented by arrows in Fig. 1, a test is available in [discrete_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/discrete_generator.i) and illustrated in Fig. 4. This option is the only one that does not support a different point redistribution since it is assumed the user desires those edge points explicitly. Along an edge described by this option the `bias_x` and `bias_y` parameters will have no effect. 
```

>   - `PARSED`, constructs a curvilinear edge as provided by a parametrization chosen by the user. The test [parsed_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/parsed_generator.i) constructs a stenotic pipe using the parametrization of the top and bottom edges. The only requirement the user needs to take into account is to map the parametrization to the reference interval `[0, 1]`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - `PARSED` - constructs a curvilinear edge, as provided by a parametric function specified in the corresponding edge parameter.  In this parameter, the function to be parsed should be a map from the unit interval `r=[0,1]`, with the output `x` and `y` components separated by a semicolon.  The test [parsed_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/parsed_generator.i) illustrates this by constructing a stenotic pipe mesh using parsed top and bottom edges.
```
